Metadata
--------

**Source:** The data used in this dashboard are taken from the PHE
fingertips tool:
<http://fingertips.phe.org.uk/profile-group/mental-health/profile/common-mental-disorders>
and then aggregated up to NHS region level.

**Indicator:** Depression recorded prevalence (QOF): % of practice
register aged 18+.

**Rationale:** Major depressive disorder is increasingly seen as chronic
and relapsing, resulting in high levels of personal disability, lost
quality of life for patients, their family and carers, multiple
morbidity, suicide, higher levels of service use and many associated
economic costs.

**Numerator:** All patients aged 18 or over, diagnosed on or after 1
April 2006, who have an unresolved record of depression in their patient
record.

**Denominator:** All patients aged 18 or over registered at a GP
Practice in England.

**Caveats:** This indicator is a measure of recorded prevalence and not
actual prevalence and therefore under-reports groups who are less likely
to be registered with a GP, such as ethnic minority populations,
homeless people, migrants and travellers. QOF registers are constructed
to underpin indicators on quality of care, and they do not necessarily
equate to prevalence as may be defined by epidemiologists.

Caution should be taken when interpreting this indicator as higher than
average value may mean that the prevalence of the condition is high in
an area, but it could also indicate that detection is better there; this
is for local knowledge to determine.

Caveat for Local Authority measure: The intended measure is a resident
based measure at local authority geography. However the required base
datasets are not available at the local authority level. Therefore a
proxy registration based measure has been constructed which illustrates
the proportion of individuals with depression in the registered
population apportioned to local authority geographies, based on the
postcode of their GP practice. For local authorities that are
geographically coterminous with CCGs, please note that values may not be
the same as the CCG value.
