Metadata
--------

**Source:** The data used in this dashboard are taken from the Office
for National Statistics (ONS) death registrations database. All
mortality data held by ONS comes from the information recorded on the
death certificate at the time of death registration.

**Indicator:** Age-standardised suicide rate per 100,000 population, NHS
regions of England, 2015 death registrations.

**Rationale:** Suicide is a major issue for society and a leading cause
of years of life lost. Suicide is often the end point of a complex
history of risk factors and distressing events, but there are many ways
in which services, communities, individuals and society as a whole can
help to prevent suicides.

**Numerator:** Number of deaths from suicide and injury of undetermined
intent classified by underlying cause of death recorded as ICD10 codes
X60-X84 (age 10+ only), Y10-Y34 (ages 15+ only), registered in 2015,
aggregated into quinary age bands (10-14,15-19,…, 85-89, 90+).

**Denominator:** Mid-year population estimes for 2015 for people of ages
10+ only, aggregated into quinary age bands (10-14,15-19 …, 85-89, 90+).

**Caveats:** The ONS definition of suicide includes deaths given an
underlying cause of intentional self harm or an injury/poisoning of
undetermined intent. In England and Wales, it has been customary to
assume that most injuries and poisonings of undetermined intent are
cases where the harm was self-inflicted but there was insufficient
evidence to prove that the deceased deliberately intended to kill
themselves. However, it cannot be applied to children due to the
possibility that these deaths were caused by unverifiable accidents,
neglect or abuse. Therefore, only deaths of undetermined intent in
adults aged 15 years and over are included.

Rates have been age-standardised according to the European Standard
Population 2013.

Figures are for deaths registered, rather than deaths occurring in each calendar year. Due to the length of time it takes to complete a coroner's inquest, it can take months or even years for a suicide to be registered. More details can be found on the ONS website:
https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/bulletins/suicidesintheunitedkingdom/2015registrations#registration-delays
