Metadata
--------

**Source:** The data used in this dashboard are taken from the NHS
Digital
website:<https://www.england.nhs.uk/statistics/statistical-work-areas/eip-waiting-times/>

**Indicator:** Early Intervention in Psychosis Waiting Times. Waiting
times for patients started treatment for Early Intervention in Psychosis
and waiting times for incomplete pathways for Early Intervention in
Psychosis.

**Rationale:** NHS England has outlined a clear commitment to driving a
more equal response across mental and physical health. A key element of
this is ensuring that people have timely access to evidence-based and
effective treatment, a vision outlined in Achieving Better Access for
Mental Health Services by 2020. The Early Intervention in Psychosis
Access and Waiting Time standard requires that from 1 April 2016, more
than 50% of people with first episode of psychosis (FEP) are treated
with a NICE-approved package of care within two weeks of referral.

**Caveats:** The number of people referred for first episode psychosis
per month is small for some CCGs and providers. As a result some CCGs
may not have any patients starting treatment in a particular month. Some
providers who submitted data indicated that there may be data quality
issues with their submissions. Two main issues were raised: 1. Some
providers were not able to include referrals made prior to 1st December
2015 due to the way that they had previously captured data. 2. Some
providers were only able to include waiting times for referrals made to
their dedicated EIP teams. These teams may only provide a services to a
limited age range; often people aged 35 and under. Both of these issues
mean the numbers of patients who started treatment and incomplete
pathways are likely to be under reported. This mayalso result in the
percentage achievement against the standard being artificially inflated.
These issues mean that individual months of data should be treated with
a degree of caution at this stage.
